# Journal-Week-9

## What I learned: November 23- November 27 edition

Here it is, week number 9 in the Academy! For this phase, I’ll try to be as concrete as possible, so that I keep practicing on being direct and to the point in the things I write. Having finished the last phase of a project made from scratch, and the beginning of this new contribute-to-open-source-project phase, I’m becoming more aware of the environment that the development of software has. Of course, this too comes with a realization that I was seeing in the past few weeks...I still need to learn a lot! Please, don’t read this as a down-hill, It’s just the normal steps that someone has when they enter a new world. When you start scratching the surface, you start seeing things you like, things you’re curious about. Then, when you keep digging, you start to find subjects that may not be your favorite ones. 

This, too, is normal. You can’t have everything perfect in the subject that you’re studying, but you can give your best try on trying to understand those “awkward” subjects. And this is precisely what I’m trying to do right now. The collaboration with the Open Source projects, the steps that need to be done before making your glorious first Pull Request. Even with the 3 questions, those are subjects I still do not possess the expertise I’d like, but I’m giving my best to understand them. Maybe all of this chit-chat is to come to the next conclusion: I’m still excited, I’m still scared, but now...I feel weirdly calm. I don't know what will happen in the future, but for now, that doesn’t really bother me… even though I think it should.

Anyhow, there were various subjects that I studied for the week, with my 3 questions being the main ones, along with the many different projects of Open Source I investigated, to see if I could work on one of their issues. The first of them is How to write an Xpath. That concept, along with the Selenium software, were things that I’ve never heard of! So, first I had to investigate both of these concepts. Selenium is a software for test automation for different kinds of browsers, and Xpath is a way to find an element in a web page. The Xpath has many tiny details and methods that can help improve the search of that particular element or value that you’re looking for. It even has options like OR and AND, to try and minimize the possible options for your search!

The second question was how does python exception handling work. The blocks that the language lets you use is a great idea, a “compact” one, and I got stuck a little phrase that I saw in one of the places I searched for definitions: if you don’t manage to find an error, you won’t have to worry, Python will do it for you.  I believe that the try-except-finally blocks are similar to Java, but still,  I think it’s a good practice while writing your code, because it ties any loose end of your project. Also, the finally block is a classy way to say that even if your code found an error, it managed to finish it without crashing.

Now, the last question. Talked about the memory management in Python, and stepped with an interesting concept, the garbage collector. This helps a software developer to focus more on its code, because the allocate and de-allocate parts (finding a memory for something) is made automatic. Not only that, if by some reason, a piece of memory is not used anymore, it gets deleted, allowing greater efficiency to the program.

I believe this would be it for me, if you have any questions, you know where to find me!
